

JavaScript Assignment – Lecture 1 
Instructions: Answer all questions. Write code where required and explain your answers clearly.



Part 1: Variables and Scope

1. Explain how var works in JavaScript. What is variable hoisting? Give a code example.

2. What is the scope of a variable declared with var inside a function? What about inside a block (e.g., an if statement)?

3. List all JavaScript primitive types in ES5. Give an example of each.

4. What is the difference between a primitive type and an object type? Give an example where this difference is important.

5. Create a number, string, and boolean using both literal and constructor syntax. Show the difference in their types using typeof.

6. Why is it generally recommended to use literals instead of constructors for primitive types?

7. Given the following code, what will be the output? Explain why.
   var x = 123.4567;
   console.log(x.toFixed(2));
   console.log(x.toPrecision(4));
8. What is NaN? How can you check if a value is NaN? Give an example.

9. What is the difference between parseInt, parseFloat, and Number? Give an example for each.

10. What is the difference between implicit and explicit type casting? Give an example of each.

11. What will be the result and type of the following expressions? Explain your answer.
	- true + 5
	- "10" - 2
	- 12 - "1a"
	- 5 / 0
	- 5 + undefined

12. What will be logged to the console in the following code? Explain each step.
	var a = "15.5";
	var b = +a;
	console.log(b, typeof b);

13. What will be the output of:
	var result = 20 > true < 5 == 1;
	console.log(result);
	Explain why.

14. Write a function that takes a string and returns true if it can be converted to a valid number, and false otherwise.
15. Write a program that prints all numbers from 1 to 20 using a while loop.
16. Write a program that asks the user to enter numbers until they enter 0, using a do...while loop. After the loop ends, print the sum of all entered numbers (excluding 0).
17. Write a program that takes a number from 1 to 7 and prints the corresponding day of the week using a switch statement. Use a for loop to test your program with all numbers from 1 to 7.

